CRON_JOBS.md, before:

# Cron Jobs Documentation

This document describes the automated cron jobs configured for the Log a Dog application.

## Automated Moderator Rewards

**Endpoint**: `/api/cron/reward-moderators`  
**Schedule**: Every hour (`0 * * * *`)  
**Purpose**: Automatically rewards moderators for resolved attestation periods

### What it does

This cron job automatically executes the "Reward Moderators" functionality on a schedule, eliminating the need for manual intervention. It:

1. **Finds eligible events** - Looks for DogEvents that:
   - Were created more than `ATTESTATION_WINDOW_SECONDS` ago (attestation window has passed)
   - Have `attestationResolved` set to `false` or `null`
   - May have attestation activity to resolve

2. **Validates on-chain state** - For each event:
   - Checks if an attestation period exists on-chain
   - Verifies the attestation window has ended
   - Confirms the period is still in "Active" status (not already resolved)
   - Ensures there are stakes to distribute

3. **Executes rewards** - Calls the smart contract's `resolveAttestationPeriod` function which:
   - Determines the winning side (valid vs invalid) based on total stakes
   - Slashes 15% from the losing side's stakes
   - Distributes slashed tokens proportionally to winners
   - Unlocks remaining stakes for all participants

4. **Updates database** - Marks events as processed:
   - Sets `attestationResolved` to `true`
   - Records `attestationResolvedAt` timestamp
   - Stores the transaction hash in `attestationTransactionHash`

5. **Invalidates cache** - Clears Redis cache for affected data

### Configuration

**Required Environment Variables:**
- `CRON_SECRET` - A secret token used to authenticate cron requests from Vercel

**Vercel Configuration** (`vercel.json`):
```json
{
  "crons": [
    {
      "path": "/api/cron/reward-moderators",
      "schedule": "0 * * * *"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Security

- The endpoint validates the `CRON_SECRET` to ensure only authorized requests from Vercel can trigger the job
- Uses the server wallet to execute transactions securely
- Processes events in batches of 50 to avoid timeouts

### Monitoring

The cron job returns detailed information about its execution:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "summary": {
    "totalEligible": 10,
    "processed": 5,
    "skipped": 4,
    "errors": 1
  },
  "details": [
    {
      "logId": "123",
      "status": "processed",
      "transactionId": "0x..."
    },
    {
      "logId": "124", 
      "status": "skipped",
      "reason": "No attestation period found"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Common Skip Reasons

- **"No attestation period found"** - Log has no on-chain attestation activity
- **"Attestation period still active"** - Attestation window hasn't elapsed yet
- **"Already resolved on-chain"** - Another process already resolved this period
- **"No stakes to resolve"** - No moderators participated in this attestation

### Error Handling

- Individual event processing errors are caught and logged
- Failed events don't prevent processing of other events
- Detailed error information is included in the response
- Database is updated to mark events as processed even if they're skipped (to avoid reprocessing)

### Performance

- Processes events in ascending chronological order (oldest first)
- Includes 1-second delays between transactions to avoid rate limiting
- Batches processing to 50 events per run to stay within serverless timeout limits
- Uses efficient database queries with proper indexing

This automation ensures that moderator rewards are distributed promptly without requiring manual intervention, improving the user experience and ensuring fair compensation for community moderators.

Commit message:

Refactor cron job to use webhook-driven database updates
- Remove manual database updates from cron job
- Only execute on-chain transactions, let webhooks handle database consistency
- Rely on attestation-resolved webhook to update database when transactions are mined
- Simplify logic by removing cache invalidation and manual record updates
- Update documentation to reflect webhook-driven architecture
- Fix ESLint warnings for unused variables
- Build verified successfully

CRON_JOBS.md, after:

# Cron Jobs Documentation

This document describes the automated cron jobs configured for the Log a Dog application.

## Automated Moderator Rewards

**Endpoint**: `/api/cron/reward-moderators`  
**Schedule**: Every hour (`0 * * * *`)  
**Purpose**: Automatically rewards moderators for resolved attestation periods

### What it does

This cron job automatically executes the "Reward Moderators" functionality on a schedule, eliminating the need for manual intervention. It uses the Supabase database as the source of truth and relies on webhooks for automatic database updates:

1. **Finds eligible events** - Queries the Supabase database for DogEvents that:
   - Were created more than `ATTESTATION_WINDOW_SECONDS` ago (attestation window has passed)
   - Have `attestationResolved` set to `false` or `null`
   - May have attestation activity to resolve

2. **Validates on-chain state** - For each event:
   - Checks if an attestation period exists on-chain
   - Verifies the attestation window has ended
   - Confirms the period is still in "Active" status (not already resolved)
   - Ensures there are stakes to distribute

3. **Executes rewards** - Calls the smart contract's `resolveAttestationPeriod` function which:
   - Determines the winning side (valid vs invalid) based on total stakes
   - Slashes 15% from the losing side's stakes
   - Distributes slashed tokens proportionally to winners
   - Unlocks remaining stakes for all participants

4. **Webhook handles database updates** - When the transaction is mined:
   - The `AttestationPeriodResolved` event is emitted on-chain
   - The attestation webhook (`/api/webhook/attestation-resolved`) automatically updates the database
   - Sets `attestationResolved` to `true`, `attestationValid`, stake amounts, and timestamps

### Configuration

**Required Environment Variables:**
- `CRON_SECRET` - A secret token used to authenticate cron requests from Vercel

**Vercel Configuration** (`vercel.json`):
```json
{
  "crons": [
    {
      "path": "/api/cron/reward-moderators",
      "schedule": "0 * * * *"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Security

- The endpoint validates the `CRON_SECRET` to ensure only authorized requests from Vercel can trigger the job
- Uses the server wallet to execute transactions securely
- Processes events in batches of 50 to avoid timeouts

### Monitoring

The cron job returns detailed information about its execution:

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "summary": {
    "totalEligible": 10,
    "processed": 5,
    "skipped": 4,
    "errors": 1
  },
  "details": [
    {
      "logId": "123",
      "status": "processed",
      "transactionId": "0x..."
    },
    {
      "logId": "124", 
      "status": "skipped",
      "reason": "No attestation period found"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Common Skip Reasons

- **"No attestation period found"** - Log has no on-chain attestation activity
- **"Attestation period still active"** - Attestation window hasn't elapsed yet
- **"Already resolved on-chain"** - Another process already resolved this period
- **"No stakes to resolve"** - No moderators participated in this attestation

### Error Handling

- Individual event processing errors are caught and logged
- Failed events don't prevent processing of other events
- Detailed error information is included in the response
- Database updates are handled automatically by webhooks when transactions are mined
- Events are only marked as processed by webhooks after successful on-chain resolution

### Performance

- Processes events in ascending chronological order (oldest first)
- Includes 1-second delays between transactions to avoid rate limiting
- Batches processing to 50 events per run to stay within serverless timeout limits
- Uses efficient database queries with proper indexing

This automation ensures that moderator rewards are distributed promptly without requiring manual intervention. The webhook-driven architecture provides reliable database consistency and improves the user experience while ensuring fair compensation for community moderators.
